---
layout: default
title: About
---

I am a postdoctoral researcher in computational biology in the Chan Lab on Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in NYC. Previously, I was a post doc in the Sims group in the MRC Weatherall Institute of Molecular Medicine at the University of Oxford, and even prior a Mathematical Genomics and Medicine PhD student in the Markowetz group in the CRUK CI at the University of Cambridge. I am an alumna of Clare College, Cambridge, Lucy Cavendish College, Cambridge, and the Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona. I have supervised for the Bioinformatics course (Part II Computer Science) and taught in the MPhil in Computational Biology at the University of Cambridge, as well as in the Oxford Biomedical Data Science Training Programme.
- <a href="https://github.com/lm687/lm687.github.io/raw/master/MorrillCV2022.pdf">Link to my CV</a>
- <a href="https://aspace.repository.cam.ac.uk/handle/1810/343583">Link to my PhD thesis</a>
- <a href="https://scholar.google.co.uk/citations?user=oGYFd6oAAAAJ&hl=en">Link to my google scholar profile </a>
- <a href="https://github.com/lm687">Link to my github profile</a>
-  <a href="https://twitter.com/MorrillLena">Link to my twitter account</a>

I have also been involved in the <a href="https://resilienceweb.org.uk/">Cambridge Resilience Web</a> and I am a Fellow of the <a href="https://www.fundaciocatalunya-lapedrera.com/ca">Fundació Catalunya La Pedrera.</a>

### Publications

- Sauer, C. M., Hall, J. A., Couturier, D. L., Bradley, T., Piskorz, A. M., Griffiths, J., ... & Brenton, J. D. (2023). Molecular landscape and functional characterization of centrosome amplification in ovarian cancer. Nature Communications, 14(1), 6505.
- Smith, P., Bradley, T., Morrill Gavarró, L., Goranova, T., Ennis, D. P., Mirza, H. B., ... & McNeish, I. A. (2023). The copy number and mutational landscape of recurrent ovarian high-grade serous carcinoma. Nature Communications, 14(1), 4387.
- Vias, M. and Morrill Gavarró, L. M., Sauer, C. M., Sanders, D. A., Piskorz, A. M., Couturier, D. L., ... & Brenton, J. D. (2023). High-grade serous ovarian carcinoma organoids as models of chromosomal instability. Elife, 12, e83867. 
- Drews, R. M., Hernando, B., Tarabichi, M., Haase, K., Lesluyes, T., Smith, P. S., ... & Markowetz, F. (2022). A pan-cancer compendium of chromosomal instability. Nature, 606(7916), 976-983.
- Cheng, Z., Mirza, H. B., Ennis, D. P., Smith, P., Morrill Gavarró, L., Sokota, C., ... & McNeish, I. A. (2022). The copy number landscape of early stage ovarian high grade serous carcinoma. Cancer Research, 82(12_Supplement), 53-53.
- Jiménez-Sánchez, A., Cybulska, P., Mager, K. L., Koplev, S., Cast, O., Couturier, D. L., ... & Miller, M. L. (2020). Unraveling tumor–immune heterogeneity in advanced ovarian cancer uncovers immunogenic effect of chemotherapy. Nature genetics, 52(6), 582-593.
- Broutier, L., Mastrogiovanni, G., Verstegen, M., Francies, H. E., Morrill Gavarró, L., Bradshaw, C. R., ... & Huch, M. (2017). Human primary liver cancer–derived organoid cultures for disease modeling and drug screening. Nature medicine, 23(12), 1424-1435.

  
### Pre-prints
- Morrill Gavarró, L., Couturier, D. L., & Markowetz, F. (2024). A Dirichlet-multinomial mixed model for determining differential abundance of mutational signatures. bioRxiv, 2024-03.
